---
layout: docs
title: "Boson Protocol: Docs: Contributing: Grants Program"
short_title: "Grants Program"
permalink: /contributing/grants-program/
---

# Build the future of dCommerce. Apply for a Boson Protocol Ecosystem Grant

![Grants Program](/src/images/grants-program.png)

At Boson Protocol, we are creating an entirely new decentralized commerce
ecosystem based on an open tokenized economy.

**_We are announcing a $5 million grant program to enable others to join us in
this endeavour_**

We have designed Boson as a core component, enabling smart contracts to connect
to real world commerce and build infrastructure that everyone can trust, can
use, and which allows buyers, sellers and creators to flourish in an equitable
non-extractionary environment.

**_But we cannot do it alone_**

Building an ecosystem takes time and effort. Above all, we require the ideas and
creativity of many different types of people. Good ideas alone, however, are not
enough: We need to provide the tools for others to bring their concepts to
fruition.

As Steve Jobs once famously said: “To me, ideas are worth nothing unless
executed. They are just a multiplier. Execution is worth millions.”

The Boson Protocol grant program recognizes that great work needs to be
incentivized. It does not happen in a vacuum.

## Why grants are important

We are already equipped to empower a whole new generation of developers and
entrepreneurs building on top of the Boson Protocol. We provide full developer
documentation and we have also presented a film of an upcoming
[reference application](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5VfFv7EGrg) to give an
idea of the sort of dApps you can build using Boson.

**But we recognise that execution takes dedication and money, so, we are
announcing the first wave of Boson Protocol Grants**

Grants have played a crucial role in the expansion of the decentralized
ecosystem. Without grants, some of the best-known projects may never have
reached escape velocity.

For example, Uniswap was supported initially by grants from the Ethereum
Foundation. The Web3 Foundation has supported more than 200 projects that paved
the way for many tools and clients that will allow the Web3 ecosystem to
flourish.

## About Boson Protocol’s Grant Program

Grants are available up to US$50,000 per project and we welcome applications
from individuals, companies, teams and research institutions.

While we are happy to accept applications in all areas that will make it easier
for future developers and teams to build on the core protocol, we are especially
interested in projects working in the following areas:

**_dCommerce applications & components_**

We are looking to fund innovative approaches to decentralized commerce
applications and projects extending the
[dCommerce stack](https://bosonprotocol.io/images/docs_fe56dc73-a886-4c02-88b8-67b58c03d4bd_doc.pdf).
This can range from user-facing front-ends, plug-ins to existing e-commerce
platforms and infrastructure to enable dCommerce applications and experiences.

**_Metaverse commerce_**

[Metaverse Commerce](https://medium.com/@bosonprotocol/a-look-inside-our-metaverse-commerce-strategy-bfd8c09ccaca)
is one of the first key applications of Boson Protocol. As such we’re moving
fast in building the first virtual shopping experiences for physical items in
decentraland.

With our newly acquired plot of LAND, and our unique capability of digital to
physical commerce, we’re looking to fund initiatives that demonstrate the
game-changing possibilities of Metaverse commerce. This is not limited to the
use of Boson Protocol’s Commitment NFTs, but can also be wider propositions
leveraging our LAND.

**_Community and ecosystem_**

Bringing people from a range of backgrounds together, and building a community,
is the vital key needed to unbundle e-commerce. In the past months we hosted a
number of events, launched a discord server for open collaboration and worked
with the Token Engineering Academy on educational courses on dCommerce. We’re
actively looking to support community, and ecosystem, initiatives ranging from
community education to DAO modules and governance proposals.

**_Tooling, developer experience and more_**

With the upcoming release of Leptonite, a reference application demonstrating
Boson capabilities, including our developer documentation site, we want to
support developers in understanding and implementing Boson Protocol into their
applications. We want to fund additions to this toolkit with analytical tools,
SDKs and more, that will help developers to leverage Boson.

**Above all, we want to inspire and encourage others to join us on our mission
to decentralize commerce**

We want to foster a dynamic, thriving and self-sustaining community where ideas
can be freely expressed and buyers and sellers can be rewarded equitably for
their work, whether in the Metaverse or the real world.

## How to apply

Are you working on a project that falls into one of the four categories above or
which can enhance, and extend, the core capabilities of Boson Protocol?

We want to hear from you.

You can
[submit a grant application using this form](https://form.typeform.com/to/RHmcobgv)
Please note that the maximum initial grant available for any project is $50,000
and would ideally be broken down into smaller milestones for delivery.

All applications will be reviewed by a council of Boson stakeholders, composed
of Foundation Board, tech and business teams, investors and advisors.

The council will conduct their decision on a set of criteria and objectives
which are included in the questionnaire and are primarily based on:

- Ecosystem impact
- Team profiles and experience
- Needs and challenges
- Measurable milestones and outcomes
- Grant size

The council will make recommendations on the recipients of the ecosystem grants.
The final decision on all grants will be approved individually by the Foundation
Board.

## Important legal notice

The Boson Protocol Grant Program is a discretionary grant program by BVoucher
Limited for our active community to encourage and reward those who are working
on dCommerce with us together. It is not a competition. We can cancel the
program at any time and grants are at the sole discretion of BVoucher Limited.
We are not able to issue grants to persons who are on any sanctions lists
maintained by Singapore, the EU or the UK or who are in a jurisdiction
sanctioned by the same. We make no representation regarding the tax consequences
of any grants and you are responsible for all taxes payable in connection with
the receipt of any grants. By submitting your application (your “Application”)
to us, you represent and warrant that all of the information you provided was
and shall remain true and complete; if you are registering on behalf of a legal
entity, such legal entity is duly organized and validly existing under the
applicable laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and you are duly
authorized by such legal entity to act on its behalf; you are of legal age to
form a binding contract (at least 18 years old in most jurisdictions). You will
comply with any laws applicable to your software and not engage in any illegal
activities. Any conduct by you that appears to be unlawful, malicious, or
criminal in nature will immediately disqualify any Application from the Boson
Protocol Grant Program. Any obligations arising out of or in connection with
this Grant Program or its subject matter will be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of Singapore, and the courts of Singapore shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute or claim arising out of or in
connection with this Grant Program.
